alright so we created the predicates to
call the print employees by age method in
the last video lets just run this to see
that it does actually work and you can
see we have successfully got to both
methods working now both the employees
over 30 and also the ones 13-under so as
you can see the predicate arguments are
just lambda expressions that match the
predicate interface the accept one parameter
and return a boolean value and I would
hope that this point you think that this is
actually quite powerful because we can
pass all sorts of conditions to the
method and we don't have to write a
different if condition to filter the
employees based on different age
criteria all we need a new lambda expression
that can map to the predicate interface
now I mentioned in a previous video in
this section that we don't have to use
lambda expressions we can always use an
anonymous class and that's also true in
this case we can pass an anonymous
predicate to the method let's do it that
way to print all employees that are younger
than 25 let's add this code to the
main method below the other calls that
we've added to the print employees by
age method so do....
....
.....and I've got the option by
IntelliJ so if I press enter it will create
the anonymous class for us
like so and notice how it's already
overridden the boolean test so we all need
to do there is return an expression
and expression obviously need to return
true for whatever condition we want to
so in this case we're going to return
employee.....
....and if
we run this
you can see employees younger than
25 tim buchalka 21 he wishes and
also Snow White who was 22
so that's obviously working as well so
yes we can use an anonymous class here
but when working with interfaces in the
java.util.function package it is
more common and I think personally more
convenient to use lambdas but if you're
reading code that someone else's written
then that's what you see but if you
really don't want to use lambdas
it is possible to do everything by using
anonymous classes like I've
shown you there now the consumer and
predicate interfaces are general
interfaces don't care about the type of
parameter being passed to the lambda
expression using generic to infer the
type now there are other consumer
and predicate interfaces that expect a
specific type of parameter for example
the double consumer expects a lambda
expression that has a double argument
now there's also an int consumer and
a long consumer in addition to
predicate there's also double predicate
int predicate and long predicate where
possible you probably should use the
more specific type of lambda to improve
readability so it just in line with that
let's add an int predicate to the main
method that actually tests whether an
integer is greater than 15 so we can do
that by typing....
....so right now the int predicate
doesn't do anything just like an
anonymous class instance that we
assigned to a variable we have to
actually use somewhere so let's print out
the value of the predicate for the value
10 now remember that we have to call the
method that the lambda maps to which is
test in this case the value we are going to
pass is 10 so let's just try that....
....
...if we run it
because of course 10 isn't greater than
15 you can see we get false printed to the console
and we can pass any integer value to
test including a mathematical expression
that returns and int an int variable or
method that returns and int so let's use
the result of say variable and adding
some number to it just confirm this
actually works the way we think it does
down here will put something like....
....
.....you can see true is printed out
to the console so this shows us that we can
reuse predicates in this way and now
another cool thing about predicates is
that we can chain them together for
example let's just say we wanted to test
whether a number is greater than 15 and
less than a 100 now we could update
our existing predicate to include the
second part of the condition
let's just say we don't want to do that
because we want to use our existing
predicate perhaps elsewhere what we do
in that scenario is create a second
predicate and chain it to the first one
so first we'll change the name of
it into something more descriptive and
let's use some refactoring to rename
that so going to right click here
and do a refactor rename and we'll
call something more descriptive let's just
call it greater than 50....
....
press ENTER now lets then create a
second int predicate and that's
going to test whether an integers less than
a hundred i'm going to type....
...
....and we will print out the results
....
...let run that and you can see we've got a true in that
last scenario and the 3 is that the
number 50 is greater than 15 but less
than 100 and incidentally the test
method will return true if both predicates
return true when evaluated and false if
one other predicates returns false if we
do that again in another scenario lets
just add another line there where we know we want
it to fail so say 15 is going to cause
obviously greater than 50 to be false
but the less than a hundred will still
be true we run that we should get a
false because one of the predicates is now
false you can see on the bottom we've
got false showing now you'll notice that
both our predicates use i as the
parameter now remember that each lambda
expression is like a nested block so
imagine each line of code surrounded by
curly braces so again the the actual
scoping that's working in this scenario
for lambda expressions is something like
this
....
.....
so that's essentially what's happening here
in other words each variable is within
the scope of a single lambda and that's
why it's ok to use the same name here
now whether that's good for code readability
of course is a different question now
the predicate interface also contains
or negate and is equals methods the
more specific predicate interfaces
contain or and negate but they don't
contain is equals and they don't extend
predicate the and/or and negate methods
can be chained together this chaining is useful if there's a
situation where we need to build a
condition on the fly or when we want to
reuse some predicates in different areas
of application
so next we're going to take a look at
the supplier interface now a supplier
doesn't accept any arguments and it does
return a value
let's look at an example lets just assume that we want to print out 10
random numbers so I'm going to just
delete this scoping code that i added
alright so going to delete that code
lets just come up with a
scenario where we want to print 10
random numbers the first draft we could
do something like....
....
and if you run that we should see 10
integers showing there you go 10
integers showing on the screen and
obviously if we wanted a smaller subset of
numbers we could put pass a parameter
to say to use the range 0 to 99 and
run that again and we only get numbers within
that range that's working
let's change the code to use a supplier
instead now because the supplier
always returns a value we have to
include the expected return type when we
declare it
we're going to use the get method to get
an object from the supplier so the
revised code would be the first line will be the same but the line after the
random we are going to put supplier the type is
going to be integer....
....
.....
so if we run that you should find that we
still get 10 integers just like
we did with the previous code and there
our 10 integers now notice the empty argument
list here that doesn't look at all
interesting and just as with other
lambda expressions we can pass suppliers
to methods so you could have a situation
where sometimes you want to supply an
object of type a and other times an
object of type b where b is a subclass
of a or perhaps we may have a case
for a supplier is providing an i/o stream was used as a counter so we
can also use suppliers when testing an
application a supplier could instantiate
objects and perhaps populate them with
random values so just as with predicates
there's more specific flavors of
suppliers as a boolean supplier a double
supplier int supplier as well as a long
supplier i'm going to finish the video
here now in the next video we're going
to continue on and we're going to start
looking at a function lambda which uses
the function interface to call
lambdas is in a different way
let's work on that in the next video